Let's talk a bit more about Helm Charts. Helm is rather an easy-to-use command line tool,
you just tell it to install this, uninstall that, upgrade something, roll back to a previous state,
and so on. And it proceeds to do all the heavy lifting behind the scenes. It's basically an
automation tool where we, the human operators, specify our desired end result, the destination,
and then it doesn't matter if 5, 10, 20, or 50 actions are necessary to achieve that end result. And to
get to that destination, Helm will go through all the required steps without bothering us with the
details. But since in the command line, we don't give this tool a lot of info, except "Hey, I want
this installed." How does it know how to achieve this goal? Helm knows how to do its job with the
help of what are called Charts. Charts are like an instruction manual for it. By reading and
interpreting their contents, it then knows exactly what it has to do to fulfill a user's request.
As far as the human operators are concerned, charts are just a bunch of text files. Each
specific file named in a specific way has a well-defined purpose. For example, as discussed before,
in the values.yaml file, we'll find parameters that we can pass to the chart
so that everything gets installed with the configuration options set as we desire.
Now we saw this simple example earlier. In this case, we have two objects, a deployment and a
service. And it's a standard deployment that deploys Pods of an image and a service that
exposes it as a NodePort service. However, you might notice the image name and replicas are
specified in a different form. This is called templating. The values that go here are part of
the values.yaml file. And we will look into templating itself in more detail later in this
course, and how to form these values. So the two files are templates. These are customized using
the values from the values.yaml file to create the final version of files required to deploy
the application on the Kubernetes cluster. Apart from the values.yaml file, every chart also
has a Chart.yaml file, it contains information about the chart itself, such as the chart API
version, which could be either v1 or v2. There's also an app version, which is used to
specify the version of the application. And then we have the name of the chart, a description type
of chart, etc. And these are just a few of the many properties a Chart.yaml file has. So
that's what we will look at next. So let's look at the Chart.yaml file of this WordPress site
as an example to understand it better. The API version is the API version of the chart.
Now when Helm 2 was around, this field did not exist. And when Helm 3 was introduced,
it came with the additional features that introduced changes in the YAML file which were
not present earlier. For example, the dependency section and the type fields that you see here
were not available in Helm 2. So Helm 3 needed a way to differentiate between charts
built in the past and charts built for Helm 3. And so this field was first introduced
by Helm 3. With this field, Helm 3 can now differentiate between old charts built for
Helm 2 and new charts built specifically for Helm 3. So old charts will either not have
this value set at all. Or if you build a chart specifically for Helm 2 today, then it would
need to be set to v1 and all charts built for Helm 3 will have this value set to
v2. So let's say you build a chart with the API version set to v2, but use it on Helm
2, then Helm 2 will not even consider this field and will simply ignore any additional
fields that were only available for Helm 3 resulting in unexpected results.
So bottom line is, if you were developing a chart going forward, just make sure that you set this to
v2 because you're most likely going to write charts for Helm 3. And if you're looking at
a chart that does not have this value set, then it is very likely that the chart was built for Helm
2. Okay, so next is the app version. Now the app version is a version of the application that's
inside of this chart. So in this case, the application is WordPress. So this refers to
the version of WordPress that this chart will deploy. This field is for informational purposes
only. And then there is version which is the version of the chart itself. So every chart must
have its own version. And this is independent of the version of the app that this chart will deploy.
This helps in tracking changes to the chart itself. The next is the name of the chart,
which is set to WordPress, followed by a description. And the next is type. So there
are two types of charts: application and library. So application is the default type, which is
all the charts that we create for deploying applications. And library is a type of chart
that provides utilities that help in building charts. So we'll discuss more about that later.
The next are dependencies. So the WordPress application is a two-tier application that has
the WordPress server and a database server. The database in this example is a MariaDB database.
So MariaDB has its own Helm charts. So we could simply add it as a dependency to our application.
This way, we don't have to merge the manifest files of MariaDB or any other database
into this particular chart. And then there is a list of keywords associated with this project.
This can be helpful when searching for this chart in a public chart repository. And then there is
maintainer section, which is information about the maintainers. And there are optional
fields like home and icon that are used to share a URL of the homepage of the project and a URL
to an icon. So a chart directory has the following structure. It has a templates directory that has
the template files that we just talked about. It also has the values.yaml and the chart
.yaml file we just talked about. And apart from these, there may also be a license file
that has the chart license information, a README file that has information about the chart in a
human-readable form. And there could also be a charts directory that has other charts that this
chart is dependent upon. And we will talk about chart dependency later in this course. Well,
that's all for now. I'll see you in the next one.